Documentation/cmdref/cilium-agent.md, before:

<!-- This file was autogenerated via cilium-agent --cmdref, do not edit manually-->

## cilium-agent

Run the cilium agent

### Synopsis

Run the cilium agent

```
cilium-agent [flags]
```

### Options

```
      --access-log string                           Path to access log of supported L7 requests observed
      --agent-labels strings                        Additional labels to identify this agent
      --allow-localhost string                      Policy when to allow local stack to reach local endpoints { auto | always | policy } (default "auto")
      --auto-direct-node-routes                     Enable automatic L2 routing between nodes
      --bpf-compile-debug                           Enable debugging of the BPF compilation process
      --bpf-ct-global-any-max int                   Maximum number of entries in non-TCP CT table (default 262144)
      --bpf-ct-global-tcp-max int                   Maximum number of entries in TCP CT table (default 1000000)
      --bpf-root string                             Path to BPF filesystem
      --cgroup-root string                          Path to Cgroup2 filesystem
      --cluster-id int                              Unique identifier of the cluster
      --cluster-name string                         Name of the cluster (default "default")
      --clustermesh-config string                   Path to the ClusterMesh configuration directory
      --config string                               Configuration file (default "$HOME/ciliumd.yaml")
      --conntrack-garbage-collector-interval uint   Garbage collection interval for the connection tracking table (in seconds) (default 60)
      --container-runtime strings                   Sets the container runtime(s) used by Cilium { containerd | crio | docker | none | auto } ( "auto" uses the container runtime found in the order: "docker", "containerd", "crio" ) (default [auto])
      --container-runtime-endpoint map              Container runtime(s) endpoint(s). (default: --container-runtime-endpoint=containerd=/var/run/containerd/containerd.sock, --container-runtime-endpoint=crio=/var/run/crio.sock, --container-runtime-endpoint=docker=unix:///var/run/docker.sock) (default map[])
      --datapath-mode string                        Datapath mode name (default "veth")
  -D, --debug                                       Enable debugging mode
      --debug-verbose strings                       List of enabled verbose debug groups
  -d, --device string                               Device facing cluster/external network for direct L3 (non-overlay mode) (default "undefined")
      --disable-conntrack                           Disable connection tracking
      --disable-endpoint-crd                        Disable use of CiliumEndpoint CRD
      --disable-k8s-services                        Disable east-west K8s load balancing by cilium
  -e, --docker string                               Path to docker runtime socket (DEPRECATED: use container-runtime-endpoint instead) (default "unix:///var/run/docker.sock")
      --enable-ipsec                                Enable IPSec support
      --enable-ipv4                                 Enable IPv4 support (default true)
      --enable-ipv6                                 Enable IPv6 support (default true)
      --enable-policy string                        Enable policy enforcement (default "default")
      --enable-tracing                              Enable tracing while determining policy (debugging)
      --envoy-log string                            Path to a separate Envoy log file, if any
      --fixed-identity-mapping map                  Key-value for the fixed identity mapping which allows to use reserved label for fixed identities (default map[])
      --flannel-manage-existing-containers          Installs a BPF program to allow for policy enforcement in already running containers managed by Flannel. Require Cilium to be running in the hostPID.
      --flannel-master-device string                Installs a BPF program to allow for policy enforcement in the given network interface. Allows to run Cilium on top of other CNI plugins that provide networking, e.g. flannel, where for flannel, this value should be set with 'cni0'. [EXPERIMENTAL]
      --flannel-uninstall-on-exit                   When used along the flannel-master-device flag, it cleans up all BPF programs installed when Cilium agent is terminated.
  -h, --help                                        help for cilium-agent
      --http-idle-timeout uint                      Time after which a non-gRPC HTTP stream is considered failed unless traffic in the stream has been processed (in seconds); defaults to 0 (unlimited)
      --http-max-grpc-timeout uint                  Time after which a forwarded gRPC request is considered failed unless completed (in seconds). A "grpc-timeout" header may override this with a shorter value; defaults to 0 (unlimited)
      --http-request-timeout uint                   Time after which a forwarded HTTP request is considered failed unless completed (in seconds); Use 0 for unlimited (default 3600)
      --http-retry-count uint                       Number of retries performed after a forwarded request attempt fails (default 3)
      --http-retry-timeout uint                     Time after which a forwarded but uncompleted request is retried (connection failures are retried immediately); defaults to 0 (never)
      --install-iptables-rules                      Install base iptables rules for cilium to mainly interact with kube-proxy (and masquerading) (default true)
      --ipsec-key-file string                       Path to IPSec key file
      --ipv4-cluster-cidr-mask-size int             Mask size for the cluster wide CIDR (default 8)
      --ipv4-node string                            IPv4 address of node (default "auto")
      --ipv4-range string                           Per-node IPv4 endpoint prefix, e.g. 10.16.0.0/16 (default "auto")
      --ipv4-service-range string                   Kubernetes IPv4 services CIDR if not inside cluster prefix (default "auto")
      --ipv6-cluster-alloc-cidr string              IPv6 /64 CIDR used to allocate per node endpoint /96 CIDR (default "f00d::/64")
      --ipv6-node string                            IPv6 address of node (default "auto")
      --ipv6-range string                           Per-node IPv6 endpoint prefix, must be /96, e.g. fd02:1:1::/96 (default "auto")
      --ipv6-service-range string                   Kubernetes IPv6 services CIDR if not inside cluster prefix (default "auto")
      --ipvlan-master-device string                 Device facing external network acting as ipvlan master (default "undefined")
      --k8s-api-server string                       Kubernetes api address server (for https use --k8s-kubeconfig-path instead)
      --k8s-kubeconfig-path string                  Absolute path of the kubernetes kubeconfig file
      --k8s-require-ipv4-pod-cidr                   Require IPv4 PodCIDR to be specified in node resource
      --k8s-require-ipv6-pod-cidr                   Require IPv6 PodCIDR to be specified in node resource
      --keep-bpf-templates                          Do not restore BPF template files from binary
      --keep-config                                 When restoring state, keeps containers' configuration in place
      --kvstore string                              Key-value store type
      --kvstore-opt map                             Key-value store options (default map[])
      --label-prefix-file string                    Valid label prefixes file path
      --labels strings                              List of label prefixes used to determine identity of an endpoint
      --lb string                                   Enables load balancer mode where load balancer bpf program is attached to the given interface
      --lib-dir string                              Directory path to store runtime build environment (default "/var/lib/cilium")
      --log-driver strings                          Logging endpoints to use for example syslog
      --log-opt map                                 Log driver options for cilium (default map[])
      --log-system-load                             Enable periodic logging of system load
      --masquerade                                  Masquerade packets from endpoints leaving the host (default true)
      --monitor-aggregation string                  Level of monitor aggregation for traces from the datapath (default "None")
      --monitor-queue-size int                      Size of the event queue when reading monitor events (default 32768)
      --mtu int                                     Overwrite auto-detected MTU of underlying network
      --nat46-range string                          IPv6 prefix to map IPv4 addresses to (default "0:0:0:0:0:FFFF::/96")
      --pprof                                       Enable serving the pprof debugging API
      --preallocate-bpf-maps                        Enable BPF map pre-allocation (default true)
      --prefilter-device string                     Device facing external network for XDP prefiltering (default "undefined")
      --prefilter-mode string                       Prefilter mode { native | generic } (default: native) (default "native")
      --prepend-iptables-chains                     Prepend custom iptables chains instead of appending (default true)
      --prometheus-serve-addr string                IP:Port on which to serve prometheus metrics (pass ":Port" to bind on all interfaces, "" is off)
      --proxy-connect-timeout uint                  Time after which a TCP connect attempt is considered failed unless completed (in seconds) (default 1)
      --restore                                     Restores state, if possible, from previous daemon (default true)
      --sidecar-istio-proxy-image string            Regular expression matching compatible Istio sidecar istio-proxy container image names (default "cilium/istio_proxy")
      --single-cluster-route                        Use a single cluster route instead of per node routes
      --socket-path string                          Sets daemon's socket path to listen for connections (default "/var/run/cilium/cilium.sock")
      --sockops-enable                              Enable sockops when kernel supported
      --state-dir string                            Directory path to store runtime state (default "/var/run/cilium")
      --tofqdns-dns-reject-response-code string     DNS response code for rejecting DNS requests, available options are '[nameError refused]' (default "refused")
      --tofqdns-enable-poller                       Enable proactive polling of DNS names in toFQDNs.matchName rules.
      --tofqdns-enable-poller-events                Emit DNS responses seen by the DNS poller as Monitor events, if the poller is enabled. (default true)
      --tofqdns-endpoint-max-ip-per-hostname int    Maximum number of IPs to maintain per FQDN name for each endpoint (default 50)
      --tofqdns-min-ttl int                         The minimum time, in seconds, to use DNS data for toFQDNs policies. (default 3600 when --tofqdns-enable-poller, 604800 otherwise)
      --tofqdns-proxy-port int                      Global port on which the in-agent DNS proxy should listen. Default 0 is a OS-assigned port.
      --trace-payloadlen int                        Length of payload to capture when tracing (default 128)
  -t, --tunnel string                               Tunnel mode {vxlan, geneve, disabled} (default "vxlan" for the "veth" datapath mode)
      --version                                     Print version information
```

Commit message:

pkg/option: enable reading from a configuration directory
A configuration directory will be a directory that contains a file for
each option to be used in Cilium. The filename will represent the same
option cilium-agent would use, the content of that file should represent
the value that will be used for that option.

Signed-off-by: André Martins <andre@cilium.io>

Documentation/cmdref/cilium-agent.md, after:

<!-- This file was autogenerated via cilium-agent --cmdref, do not edit manually-->

## cilium-agent

Run the cilium agent

### Synopsis

Run the cilium agent

```
cilium-agent [flags]
```

### Options

```
      --access-log string                           Path to access log of supported L7 requests observed
      --agent-labels strings                        Additional labels to identify this agent
      --allow-localhost string                      Policy when to allow local stack to reach local endpoints { auto | always | policy } (default "auto")
      --auto-direct-node-routes                     Enable automatic L2 routing between nodes
      --bpf-compile-debug                           Enable debugging of the BPF compilation process
      --bpf-ct-global-any-max int                   Maximum number of entries in non-TCP CT table (default 262144)
      --bpf-ct-global-tcp-max int                   Maximum number of entries in TCP CT table (default 1000000)
      --bpf-root string                             Path to BPF filesystem
      --cgroup-root string                          Path to Cgroup2 filesystem
      --cluster-id int                              Unique identifier of the cluster
      --cluster-name string                         Name of the cluster (default "default")
      --clustermesh-config string                   Path to the ClusterMesh configuration directory
      --config string                               Configuration file (default "$HOME/ciliumd.yaml")
      --config-dir string                           Configuration directory that contains a file for each option
      --conntrack-garbage-collector-interval uint   Garbage collection interval for the connection tracking table (in seconds) (default 60)
      --container-runtime strings                   Sets the container runtime(s) used by Cilium { containerd | crio | docker | none | auto } ( "auto" uses the container runtime found in the order: "docker", "containerd", "crio" ) (default [auto])
      --container-runtime-endpoint map              Container runtime(s) endpoint(s). (default: --container-runtime-endpoint=containerd=/var/run/containerd/containerd.sock, --container-runtime-endpoint=crio=/var/run/crio.sock, --container-runtime-endpoint=docker=unix:///var/run/docker.sock) (default map[])
      --datapath-mode string                        Datapath mode name (default "veth")
  -D, --debug                                       Enable debugging mode
      --debug-verbose strings                       List of enabled verbose debug groups
  -d, --device string                               Device facing cluster/external network for direct L3 (non-overlay mode) (default "undefined")
      --disable-conntrack                           Disable connection tracking
      --disable-endpoint-crd                        Disable use of CiliumEndpoint CRD
      --disable-k8s-services                        Disable east-west K8s load balancing by cilium
  -e, --docker string                               Path to docker runtime socket (DEPRECATED: use container-runtime-endpoint instead) (default "unix:///var/run/docker.sock")
      --enable-ipsec                                Enable IPSec support
      --enable-ipv4                                 Enable IPv4 support (default true)
      --enable-ipv6                                 Enable IPv6 support (default true)
      --enable-policy string                        Enable policy enforcement (default "default")
      --enable-tracing                              Enable tracing while determining policy (debugging)
      --envoy-log string                            Path to a separate Envoy log file, if any
      --fixed-identity-mapping map                  Key-value for the fixed identity mapping which allows to use reserved label for fixed identities (default map[])
      --flannel-manage-existing-containers          Installs a BPF program to allow for policy enforcement in already running containers managed by Flannel. Require Cilium to be running in the hostPID.
      --flannel-master-device string                Installs a BPF program to allow for policy enforcement in the given network interface. Allows to run Cilium on top of other CNI plugins that provide networking, e.g. flannel, where for flannel, this value should be set with 'cni0'. [EXPERIMENTAL]
      --flannel-uninstall-on-exit                   When used along the flannel-master-device flag, it cleans up all BPF programs installed when Cilium agent is terminated.
  -h, --help                                        help for cilium-agent
      --http-idle-timeout uint                      Time after which a non-gRPC HTTP stream is considered failed unless traffic in the stream has been processed (in seconds); defaults to 0 (unlimited)
      --http-max-grpc-timeout uint                  Time after which a forwarded gRPC request is considered failed unless completed (in seconds). A "grpc-timeout" header may override this with a shorter value; defaults to 0 (unlimited)
      --http-request-timeout uint                   Time after which a forwarded HTTP request is considered failed unless completed (in seconds); Use 0 for unlimited (default 3600)
      --http-retry-count uint                       Number of retries performed after a forwarded request attempt fails (default 3)
      --http-retry-timeout uint                     Time after which a forwarded but uncompleted request is retried (connection failures are retried immediately); defaults to 0 (never)
      --install-iptables-rules                      Install base iptables rules for cilium to mainly interact with kube-proxy (and masquerading) (default true)
      --ipsec-key-file string                       Path to IPSec key file
      --ipv4-cluster-cidr-mask-size int             Mask size for the cluster wide CIDR (default 8)
      --ipv4-node string                            IPv4 address of node (default "auto")
      --ipv4-range string                           Per-node IPv4 endpoint prefix, e.g. 10.16.0.0/16 (default "auto")
      --ipv4-service-range string                   Kubernetes IPv4 services CIDR if not inside cluster prefix (default "auto")
      --ipv6-cluster-alloc-cidr string              IPv6 /64 CIDR used to allocate per node endpoint /96 CIDR (default "f00d::/64")
      --ipv6-node string                            IPv6 address of node (default "auto")
      --ipv6-range string                           Per-node IPv6 endpoint prefix, must be /96, e.g. fd02:1:1::/96 (default "auto")
      --ipv6-service-range string                   Kubernetes IPv6 services CIDR if not inside cluster prefix (default "auto")
      --ipvlan-master-device string                 Device facing external network acting as ipvlan master (default "undefined")
      --k8s-api-server string                       Kubernetes api address server (for https use --k8s-kubeconfig-path instead)
      --k8s-kubeconfig-path string                  Absolute path of the kubernetes kubeconfig file
      --k8s-require-ipv4-pod-cidr                   Require IPv4 PodCIDR to be specified in node resource
      --k8s-require-ipv6-pod-cidr                   Require IPv6 PodCIDR to be specified in node resource
      --keep-bpf-templates                          Do not restore BPF template files from binary
      --keep-config                                 When restoring state, keeps containers' configuration in place
      --kvstore string                              Key-value store type
      --kvstore-opt map                             Key-value store options (default map[])
      --label-prefix-file string                    Valid label prefixes file path
      --labels strings                              List of label prefixes used to determine identity of an endpoint
      --lb string                                   Enables load balancer mode where load balancer bpf program is attached to the given interface
      --lib-dir string                              Directory path to store runtime build environment (default "/var/lib/cilium")
      --log-driver strings                          Logging endpoints to use for example syslog
      --log-opt map                                 Log driver options for cilium (default map[])
      --log-system-load                             Enable periodic logging of system load
      --masquerade                                  Masquerade packets from endpoints leaving the host (default true)
      --monitor-aggregation string                  Level of monitor aggregation for traces from the datapath (default "None")
      --monitor-queue-size int                      Size of the event queue when reading monitor events (default 32768)
      --mtu int                                     Overwrite auto-detected MTU of underlying network
      --nat46-range string                          IPv6 prefix to map IPv4 addresses to (default "0:0:0:0:0:FFFF::/96")
      --pprof                                       Enable serving the pprof debugging API
      --preallocate-bpf-maps                        Enable BPF map pre-allocation (default true)
      --prefilter-device string                     Device facing external network for XDP prefiltering (default "undefined")
      --prefilter-mode string                       Prefilter mode { native | generic } (default: native) (default "native")
      --prepend-iptables-chains                     Prepend custom iptables chains instead of appending (default true)
      --prometheus-serve-addr string                IP:Port on which to serve prometheus metrics (pass ":Port" to bind on all interfaces, "" is off)
      --proxy-connect-timeout uint                  Time after which a TCP connect attempt is considered failed unless completed (in seconds) (default 1)
      --restore                                     Restores state, if possible, from previous daemon (default true)
      --sidecar-istio-proxy-image string            Regular expression matching compatible Istio sidecar istio-proxy container image names (default "cilium/istio_proxy")
      --single-cluster-route                        Use a single cluster route instead of per node routes
      --socket-path string                          Sets daemon's socket path to listen for connections (default "/var/run/cilium/cilium.sock")
      --sockops-enable                              Enable sockops when kernel supported
      --state-dir string                            Directory path to store runtime state (default "/var/run/cilium")
      --tofqdns-dns-reject-response-code string     DNS response code for rejecting DNS requests, available options are '[nameError refused]' (default "refused")
      --tofqdns-enable-poller                       Enable proactive polling of DNS names in toFQDNs.matchName rules.
      --tofqdns-enable-poller-events                Emit DNS responses seen by the DNS poller as Monitor events, if the poller is enabled. (default true)
      --tofqdns-endpoint-max-ip-per-hostname int    Maximum number of IPs to maintain per FQDN name for each endpoint (default 50)
      --tofqdns-min-ttl int                         The minimum time, in seconds, to use DNS data for toFQDNs policies. (default 3600 when --tofqdns-enable-poller, 604800 otherwise)
      --tofqdns-proxy-port int                      Global port on which the in-agent DNS proxy should listen. Default 0 is a OS-assigned port.
      --trace-payloadlen int                        Length of payload to capture when tracing (default 128)
  -t, --tunnel string                               Tunnel mode {vxlan, geneve, disabled} (default "vxlan" for the "veth" datapath mode)
      --version                                     Print version information
```
